When we looked at method types yesterday, we looked at decorators, those words that start with the
at symbol to indicate what type of method it is.
Today, we're going to look at decorated more thoroughly because not only are there decorators that
Python has created, but we can create.
Our own decorators are actually functions that modify the behavior of other functions and help shorten
our code.
The simplest way to understand what a decorator does is as follows Suppose I have an uppercase function
which is only responsible for printing any string in uppercase.
Now suppose I have another function called lowercase, which is in charge of printing any string in
lowercase.
So far so easy.
But now suppose sometimes I want these functions to just do their job and nothing else.
But other times I want them not only to print what they have to print, but also greet the user with
hello and goodbye before and after printing their results.
What should I do?
I think I basically have two options.
One is to manually print those greetings before and after the call every time I want the functions to
run them, which would be very inefficient.
And another is to create new, duplicate, uppercase and lowercase functions that include greetings.
This way you can call one or the other depending on whether or not you want the greeting to occur.
Yet this would not be efficient either, since duplicating code is not a very Python strategy.
Wouldn't it be great if our functions had an on off switch to enable or disable those extra functionalities?
That's the idea of decorators and Federico will show you how they work.
If you follow him over to Chart, we'll start to develop this concept by creating two basic functions.
One will be uppercase and it will receive text as a parameter, and this function will just print that
text, applying the upper string method so as to return an uppercase to text.
This is one function and the other one will be named lowercase.
It will receive a text and will only print it, applying the lower method so as to return a lowercase
text.
All right, we have our functions.
And just like fill ask before what if I want the software to say hello before applying either method,
then show the text and say goodbye.
So let's find out.
Using uppercase.
Our first option is to make the software print.
Hello.
Before printing E the function.
Then we can execute the uppercase function which can contain a message like today's Monday followed
by print and goodbye.
If we had to do this every time we want to add a greeting or farewell, it would be tedious.
I think it wouldn't be practical.
So our second option is to print hello here and goodbye here, inside the function itself.
But we can no longer use this function without preventing these messages from appearing.
In this case, we'd have to duplicate our function and create another one named uppercase without greeting
and then delete the printings.
We'd have to do the same with lowercase, which would mean to duplicate the whole code.
So this isn't very smart.
The best solution is to use decorators in order for you to learn how to use them correctly.
I need to explain some other things first.
First of all, everything in Python is an object, as we've already seen.
The instances of your bird class are objects.
Number 15 is an object.
It is the instance of an integer.
This string reading hello is also an object.
It is an instance of a string.
What I want you to understand is that even functions are objects.
Therefore, uppercase in this case is also an object.
So if uppercase is an object, it means we can assign a function to a variable.
But now suppose I have a variable named my function and its contents are equal to the uppercase function.
It's not necessary to add brackets.
Now this variable is storing uppercase.
Would this mean I can call uppercase through this variable named my function?
Precisely.
So look, let's call my function and pass the word python as parameter.
And now let's execute it.
We got Python upper cased and this could be done since upper case was assigned to my function, meaning
that our variable can return uppercase to texts.
Now that I've explained this, let's move on.
Functions can be stored in variables and functions can be passed as arguments to other functions too.
How can we do this?
Let's delete this first, and here we have the uppercase function and we'll create a new function named
one function as regards parameters will pass function colon and will make it return function.
So what can we do when calling one function?
Let's call it this way one function and we'll pass uppercase as argument which asks for a text that
will read testing.
So we're calling from one function and argument, which is the uppercase function, and it requires
the text argument, which I'm passing right now.
I hope you're following me.
The main idea here is that this function is being passed as an argument to another function.
If I execute this, I receive testing uppercase, and this would be some sort of brainteaser.
I know, but you need to understand this in order to understand decorators.
So let's analyze something else.
In Python, we can define functions inside other functions, and we can do that using what we have just
learned.
So let's delete all of this and leave.
Uppercase and lowercase will define these functions inside another one, which will bundle them up,
so to speak.
So def and let's name this function change letters since it will contain both functions, will pass
the word type as an argument and will indent this so as to leave it inside the function.
So the change letters function contains two functions which are uppercase and lowercase.
In order for the software to know what to do when we call change letters will ask if type, which is
a value we're going to pass is equal to up.
That is uppercase.
Then we'll return the uppercase function without brackets.
We'll also add ELIF in case type is equal to lower case low.
If so, it will return the lower case function.
So our function is ready when calling it.
All we have to do is ask for up or low so that the software decides which function it will carry out.
So to perform this task, we'll put it into practice what we saw earlier.
Inside, a variable named operation will open a call to change letters and pass the word up as argument.
Now that I have the operation variable which contains a function, I'll execute it and then I'll pass
the word word in lowercase as an argument.
We'll see that the software returned it uppercase.
This can be tricky.
And so I advise that you to rewatch this video and follow it step by step if you haven't already understood
this.
It's not as hard as it looks.
We're just playing with functions and objects, so we're just finding out that functions behave like
any other objects.
And as a result, we can store them in variables.
We can create functions that execute other functions and so on.
So if you understand it and take it into consideration, we'll be able to talk about decorators and
find the answer to our previous problem.
We need a decorator that allows us to add greetings and farewells or remove them if we no longer want
them.
So let's delete this and start from scratch.
We'll create a function that can be named decorate greeting since it will decorate any function that
we pass to it.
This function will receive another function as argument.
The same function that will be decorated with greeting and farewell messages.
So once we are inside, the function will define another one which can just be named another function.
And here we'll pass the word we want to change to uppercase, all lowercase.
So inside this function, we'll type a greeting message that reads Hello.
Then we'll call whatever function we need to pass.
The one will assign word to.
And then we'll print a farewell.
Goodbye.
And we're almost done.
The last thing it will do is return another function.
So this function will decorate any function that we pass to it with greeting and farewell messages.
Now we can have all the functions we want and they can do whatever they want.
In this case, we have uppercase.
We'll pass text to it.
And we said this function should print text dot upper so as to change that text to uppercase.
The second function is lowercase, which will have the text as argument, and in this case we'll apply
the lower method so that this function changes the text to lowercase.
If we want to call one of these functions, we can do it easily.
For instance, we'll call lowercase and pass a word containing uppercase and lowercase letters such
as Python.
If we execute, this will receive Python lowercase.
And if we call uppercase, we'll receive Python uppercase and that's fine.
In addition, if we want a function to be decorated with greetings and farewells, we have to add decorate
greeting before the function.
We're basically telling Python, look, when you execute this function, bundle it up with decorate
greeting.
So if we call uppercase again, we'll receive hello python.
Goodbye.
The same would happen with lowercase if we used our decorator.
So let's execute it to receive.
Hello Python.
Goodbye once again.
So although we managed to bundle a function up with another one, thanks to the decorator, we're not
yet able to use either of these functions without the decorator.
We can't execute them as to get something in return like we always do.
So we can execute them as follows.
Let's remove these decorators and create a new variable named decorated uppercase, which will be equal
to the decorate greeting function and will pass the uppercase function as argument.
Now, if we want to call the uppercase function without the messages, we do it like before we type
uppercase and pass the word fedi.
As a result, it will print this uppercase.
However, if we want to call decorated uppercase and we pass the word fedi to it will receive a message
that reads, Hello, fella, goodbye.
To sum up, we can activate or not a decorator by using a function with its basic name, or using a
variable containing a decorator so as to call a function from there.
This is the basis of decorators.
It's rather a complex and abstract concept, and it's quite convenient as to allow us to join functions
and make them work together if we need them to.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.